>> Lukas Ruebbelke: If we are at,
let's say, kind of very local level.
So imagine we're sitting in a room here.
And this is the current angular
perspective that we have.
We're going to zoom out and
we're going to look it programming as
a whole from at a minimum,
like an airplane view.
So we're not going from ground level.
Let's step up and just look at
applications as a whole from kind of this
10,000-foot view and use this as
a context for kind of everything that
we're going to cover today and
how it actually solves these high-level
problems.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
how many people here would say
that programming is super easy and
it comes totally natural, anybody?
I can say for
a fact that learning to program and
learning to program well is one of the
hardest things that I've ever had to do.
And it's something that I
just work on over and over.
Every day, I'm trying to get better.
And whatt's funny is, I'll tell
a little story, so I've mentioned Jeff
[INAUDIBLE] who's saying who has an
amazing course here, and one of my heroes.
We were at Salt Lake City at a conference,
and he's a bit more classically trained.
I'm self-taught, and so I happen to
know a little bit about a lot of things,
where he knows a lot about
some very specific things.
And so I'm saying, Jeff, what do you do
when you're kind of this breadth style
learner, where you just know a lot?
How would you approach that?
And he made this comment, he said,
well, I'd been programming for
ten years before I learned Lisp.
And then I realized I
didn't know anything.
And so you can imagine it
just kind of like [SOUND].
It's like if you didn't
know anything before Lisp,
I haven't even gotten started.
And so I bring that up to say
that programming is very complex.
And I think that not only is
programming itself complex,
but understanding the problems
that we're trying to solve,
that there are complicated problems
that a lot of times the stakeholders
they don't actually understand
fully what they're building or why.
And so
now trying to build something that really,
at the end of the day,
isn't really well defined and is changing.
And so now we're taking this
complexity and adjusting over time.
This is why Agile exists, different
things, is that it's very, very hard.
And I think we can agree that if it was
easy, I think everybody would be doing it.
As it is, I've been doing it for
easily 15 years, and
I'm still learning all the time.
Like it's something that I will pursue for
the rest of my life, and
I love it.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I
was talking to Victor Savkin and
we're talking about kind of immutability,
functional program,
different things, he said, hey.
You should go read this book Out of the
Tar Pit by Ben Moseley and Peter Marks.
And you can Google it,
you get the PDF for free.
And I would say definitely
read li e the first 20 pages.
And towards the end,
it was hard for me to follow.
It didn't really seem applicable.
But they made this quote that I really,
really like.
And that is the biggest
problem in development and
maintenance of large-scale
software systems is complexity.
Large systems are hard to understand.
And so I totally agree with this.
But it begs the question,
what is complexity?
What does he mean or
what do they mean here?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And I'm not gonna
read this whole quote, but they basically
define it as kind of three things.
Handling of state,
being the big one, and out of that,
the code volume that comes
from handling state and
the challenges of communicating
that state through your system.
So flow of control,
like when something happens,
how do you communicate that
to the rest of your system?
So we can agree the biggest
problem with software,
especially as it grows in size,
is complexity.
And that consists of state,
flow control, and code volume.